********************
Internationalization
********************

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:


The Benefits of i18n
====================

The aim of internationalization (i18n) is to be able to support multiple
natural languages without explicit changes in the program code or templates.
In a properly internationalized application, you can add or remove languages
with few to no code changes. You can even have your website automatically pick
the correct language for your visitors based on their web browser language
preferences.


Running the i18n Example
========================

WebCore includes one example project that demonstrates the use of translation
functions. As examples are not included in the downloadable WebCore
distribution, you need to get the source tarball from
`Github <https://github.com/GothAlice/WebCore/archives/master>`_. The example
is located in the ``examples/example-i18n`` directory. To run the example, make
sure you have WebCore and Genshi installed. Then, run the following commands
(the first one only needs to be run once):

.. code-block: sh

    $ python setup.py egg_info
    $ paster serve sample.ini

Then point your web browser to http://localhost:8080/ and you should see
"Hello World!". It also has other methods you can try, such as
`time <http://localhost:8080/time>`_. Take a look at the source code to see
more.


Setting Up i18n for Your Application
====================================

First, you will need to install the `Babel <http://babel.edgewall.org/>`_
distribution. It greatly simplifies creation
and updating of locales in an application. It is probably a good idea to
familiarize yourself with some of the basic concepts related to i18n. You can
read about these from the
`Babel documentation <http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/index.html>`_.


Choosing the Default Language
-----------------------------

Here, the "default language" is the language you use when writing text literals
in the code and in the templates of your application. This is typically either
English or your native language. This is the language that will be used as a
basis for translating the strings to other languages. It also works as the
fallback language for any untranslated strings. To add more fallback languages,
you can use the :func:`~web.core.i18n.add_fallback` function.


Configuring Your Application's INI File
---------------------------------------

To enable i18n support and set the default language for the application,
make the following changes to your application's INI file:

.. code-block:: ini

    web.i18n = True
    lang = fr

Replace ``fr`` with the appropriate `ISO 639-1 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1>`_
code for the language you want to use as the default. If you omit the ``lang``
parameter, ``en`` will be the default. The ``web.i18n`` parameter is necessary
for automatic language detection and inclusion of the translation machinery
in the global template namespace. These modifications are unnecessary if you
don't need automatic language detection and only use the translation machinery
explicitly in the code (covered later in this tutorial).


Configuring Babel
-----------------

For Babel to be able to extract your translatable strings from your application,
you need to tell it how to find them. For that, you need to create a file named
``babel.cfg`` in your project root (where ``setup.py`` is located). The
following file is an example configuration file for Babel that extracts strings
from Python code, Genshi templates (assumed to end with ``.html``) and Mako
templates (assumed to end with ``.mako``). You can similarly extract messages
from templates belonging to any template engine as long as it comes with an
appropriate Babel plugin.

.. code-block:: ini

    # Extraction from Python source files
    [python: **.py]

    # Extraction from Genshi templates
    [genshi: **.html]
    input_encoding = utf-8

    # Extraction from Mako templates
    [mako: **.mako]
    input_encoding = utf-8

The format of the file matching patterns is described in the
`Babel documentation <http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/messages.html#extraction-method-mapping-and-configuration>`_.


Configuring setup.cfg
---------------------

The last configuration step is adding some new sections to your ``setup.cfg``
file (create it if you don't have one already). This is mostly done to define
where your locale files should go.
A newly created setup.cfg might look like this:

.. code-block:: ini

    # Babel configuration
    [compile_catalog]
    domain = myproject
    directory = myproject/i18n
    statistics = true

    [extract_messages]
    keywords = __:1,2 L_ L__:1,2
    mapping_file = babel.cfg
    output_file = myproject/i18n/myproject.pot
    width = 80

    [init_catalog]
    domain = services
    input_file = myproject/i18n/myproject.pot
    output_dir = myproject/i18n

    [update_catalog]
    domain = services
    input_file = myproject/i18n/myproject.pot
    output_dir = myproject/i18n
    previous = true

Just replace ``myproject`` with the actual name of your project.


Preparing Python Code for Translation
-------------------------------------

In order for Babel to know which strings are eligible for translation, they
need to be marked as such. Consider the following Python code::

    print 'Hello World'

In order to mark that literal as translatable, it needs to be prefixed with
``_`` or any other keyword previously defined in the ``extract_messages``
section of setup.cfg::

    from web.core.i18n import _

    print _('Hello World')

WebCore provides the following convenience functions for translation:

======== ================== =================================
Function Gettext equivalent Notes
======== ================== =================================
``_``    ugettext           Returns unicode
``__``   ungettext          Returns unicode
``L_``   ugettext           Lazily evaluated, returns unicode
``L__``  ungettext          Lazily evaluated, returns unicode
======== ================== =================================

The ``L_`` and ``L__`` functions are special in the way that the wrapped string
is not translated when the expression is evaluated, but instead each time the
string is accessed. Thus you can use them to put translatable strings on the
module or class level without it being translated at import time, but instead
after the correct language for the request has been determined.


Preparing Templates for Translation
-----------------------------------

Different template engines handle message extraction differently. Genshi, for
example, `extracts all strings not inside ignored tags by default
<http://genshi.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/i18n.html#babel-integration>`_.
Mako, on the other hand, always requires
`explicit use of translation functions
<http://www.makotemplates.org/docs/usage.html#babel>`_. For other template
engines, see their respective documentation for more information on this.

An example of a Genshi template prepared for i18n:

.. code-block:: html

    <html>
    <head>
      <title>Hello World</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <p>${_('Hello from WebCore v%s!') % web.release}</p>
    </body>
    </html>

The same for Mako would be:

.. code-block:: html

    <html>
    <head>
      <title>${_('Hello World')}</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <p>${_('Hello from WebCore v%s!') % web.release}</p>
    </body>
    </html>

The translation functions are automatically inserted into the template's
namespace by WebCore's i18n middleware.

.. note:: One point to remember here is to defer string substitution to
          **after** the invocation of the translation function. Otherwise the
          translation procedure will likely fail.


Changing the current language
-----------------------------

To change the user's current language, use the
:func:`web.core.i18n.set_lang` function. Similarly,
:func:`web.core.i18n.get_lang` will tell you what the user's current language
is. When you set the language, the setting is saved in the user's session if
sessions are enabled (``web.sessions = True``).


Using Arbitrary Translations Directly
-------------------------------------

Applications sometimes need to work with several different languages within a
single request. In such situations it is necessary to use a different
translator than the default one::

    from web.core.i18n import get_translator
    
    _ = get_translator('de').ugettext
    print _('Hello World!')

This will print "Hallo Welt!", assuming proper prior setup of the message
catalog. Remember that for message extraction to work properly, the strings
still need to be wrapped by ``_`` or any other translation function.


Building Message Catalogs
-------------------------

When your configuration is set up and your translatable strings have been
marked in your source code and templates, it is time to build the catalogs.
First, you need to extract the translatable messages from your application into
a .pot file, which will be used as a template for all translations:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py extract_messages

Next, you need to initialize the individual catalogs for each language you want
to support:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py init_catalog -l fr
    $ python setup.py init_catalog -l de

This step only needs to be done once for every new language you add.
When you have the catalogs, you can issue the catalog update command which
will create .po files for each language based on the .pot template created
earlier:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py update_catalog

At this point you can start the actual translation work by editing the .po
files of each language. When you are done, just compile the .po files to .mo
files:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py compile_catalog

Now you're done! You can try out your application in different languages by
switching the language preferences of your web browser.


Updating Translations
=====================

In the course of your application development, you will likely need to update
both the source strings and the translations. The procedure for updating
translations is as follows:

#. Run ``python setup.py extract_messages``
#. Run ``python setup.py update_catalog``
#. Check/update the translations
#. Run ``python setup.py compile_catalog``

If you are only updating the translations and haven't changed any source
strings, you can skip the first two steps.
